SIMON YARRELL — OUTFIT GENERATION RULES
Update the outfit-generation engine so every generated look is stylistically coherent. These rules are mandatory and must be enforced before an outfit is displayed.
1. STYLE COHERENCE
Every item in an outfit must belong to the same overall style direction and level of formality.
Do NOT randomly combine items just because they fill the required clothing categories.
Examples:
Suit jacket → button-up/dress shirt, refined T-shirt, turtleneck, fine-knit sweater, or other appropriate elevated top.
Blazer → button-up shirt, polo, refined T-shirt, sweater, turtleneck.
Streetwear jacket → T-shirt, hoodie, sweatshirt, casual sweater.
Athletic clothing → compatible athletic/casual pieces.
Never pair a rugby shirt with a formal suit unless the user specifically requests that styling direction.
In the attached example, the BODE double-breasted linen suit jacket should NOT have been paired with the NOAH rugby shirt. Replace that type of selection with a button-up shirt, T-shirt, sweater, turtleneck, or another top that complements the suit.
2. FORMALITY MATCHING
Assign every product a formality/style level before generating the outfit:
formal
business
smart-casual
casual
streetwear
athletic
Items in the same outfit should normally be from the same level or an immediately compatible neighboring level.
Do not make extreme jumps such as:
formal suit + rugby shirt + athletic sweatpants
unless the user specifically asks for an experimental or mixed-style outfit.
3. COLOR COORDINATION
Colors must work together as an intentional palette.
First choose a palette for the entire look, then select products.
Use:
complementary colors
analogous colors
monochromatic colors
neutrals with accent colors
tonal combinations
Avoid random colors simply because individual products match the requested category.
Every outfit should have a clear:
primaryColor
secondaryColor
neutralColor
accentColor (optional)
4. PATTERN COORDINATION
Patterns must be coordinated across the entire outfit.
Avoid competing patterns.
If one garment has a strong pattern, most other pieces should normally be solid or visually restrained.
Do not combine multiple loud patterns unless the styling engine determines that they intentionally complement each other.
5. SEASON MUST MATCH
Every generated outfit must belong to ONE season:
spring
summer
fall
winter
All garments, footwear, materials, colors, and layering must make sense for that season.
Never mix obviously incompatible seasonal pieces unless the user specifically requests transitional or mixed-season styling.
Example:
A lightweight linen summer suit should not be paired with a heavy winter sweater or winter footwear.
6. FABRIC AND MATERIAL COMPATIBILITY
Consider materials when building the look.
Linen, lightweight cotton, suede, wool, leather, denim, technical fabrics, etc. should be combined intentionally and appropriately for the season and aesthetic.
7. OUTFIT ARCHETYPE FIRST
Do NOT select five random products and then attempt to make them into an outfit.
The system must first decide what it is building.
Example:
Season: Summer
Gender: Men
Aesthetic: Luxury Smart Casual
Formality: Smart Casual
Palette: Olive + Cream + Brown
Silhouette: Relaxed Tailoring
THEN search the product catalog for compatible pieces.
8. COMPLETE-LOOK VALIDATION
Before displaying an outfit, evaluate the entire combination together.
Validate:
season compatibility
formality compatibility
color compatibility
pattern compatibility
fabric compatibility
silhouette compatibility
aesthetic compatibility
If any major compatibility check fails, reject the outfit and generate another combination.
9. NEVER REPEAT AN OUTFIT — GLOBAL RULE
Once an outfit combination has been successfully displayed, that exact combination must NEVER be generated again for ANY user.
This cannot be session-only or device-only memory.
Store generated combinations permanently in the database.
Create a deterministic outfit fingerprint from the product IDs after sorting them:
outfitFingerprint =
SHA256(sort(productIds).join("|"))
Store the fingerprint in a database table with a UNIQUE database constraint.
Before displaying an outfit:
generate candidate
      ↓
validate styling
      ↓
create fingerprint
      ↓
check database
      ↓
already exists? → reject and regenerate
      ↓
new combination? → save fingerprint
      ↓
display outfit
The database UNIQUE constraint is required so two simultaneous requests cannot accidentally display the same outfit.
10. PRODUCT REPETITION VS. OUTFIT REPETITION
Individual products MAY appear in different outfits.
However, the exact same combination of products must never appear again.
Also introduce variety rules so the generator does not repeatedly use the same hero jacket, shoe, bag, or top across many consecutive looks.
11. USER REQUESTS OVERRIDE DEFAULT STYLING
If a user specifically asks for something unconventional—such as:
"Style a rugby shirt with a suit"
then the system may intentionally create that combination.
Otherwise, normal professional styling rules apply.
12. FIX THE CURRENT EXAMPLE
For the outfit shown in my screenshot:
Keep the BODE olive double-breasted linen jacket.
REMOVE the NOAH rugby shirt.
Select a compatible button-up shirt, refined T-shirt, lightweight sweater, polo/turtleneck when seasonally appropriate, or another elevated top.
Re-evaluate the pants, shoes, and bag so the entire look follows one aesthetic, palette, formality level, and season.
IMPORTANT:
Do not solve this by hard-coding "no rugby shirts with BODE."
Fix the underlying outfit-generation logic so inappropriate combinations are automatically prevented throughout the entire Simon Yarrell catalog.
Apply these rules to every AI-generated look, including Get Styled, Celebrity Inspired, seasonal looks, occasion looks, and any future outfit-generation features.
After implementing this, show me:
The files/code changed.
The outfit compatibility scoring logic.
The database schema used for global outfit fingerprints.
How duplicate outfits are prevented under simultaneous requests.
Three example outfits that would PASS validation.
Three example outfits that would FAIL validation and the exact reason each is rejected.
Confirmation that the current rugby-shirt/suit issue is fixed.
